listen this movies based on an actual
lie and it's a high combo price I was
able to catch you back at Sundance and
have been praising it multiple times
it's this crazy story about a dying
grandma whose entire family plans a fake
wedding in order to come back to China
to see her but the thing is no one's
told her she's dying and they intend on
keeping that lie a secret let me explain
so to some this may actually sound
familiar since the director Lulu Wang
had actually told her story on the
podcast This American Life she opens up
about how she had the strong
relationship with her grandma before
being moved to America at age 6 years
later her 9i gets diagnosed with stage 4
lung cancer and has given three to four
months to live the family chooses to
keep it alive the same way they've done
for previous members and faked a wedding
in order for all of them to see her one
last time so you know a comedy by
default that podcast didn't cause a lot
of interest from producers wanting to
turn it into a movie the producers came
I had people offering like much bigger
budgets for the film because they heard
it on this American Life and it was now
IP and I said no I said no to the Disney
version I said no to the like you know
big-budget version that was gonna be the
big fat Chinese wedding version where
she's the bride and she brings home her
boyfriend that they broke up but they're
gonna get married anyway like you know
that was the version people were
pitching me and I was like but did you
even hear my story I loved oh she just
oh she's just old Disney like are you
totally cool and not hearing from them
or should they keep your numbers it's
interesting because while it is based on
her experience the character of Billy
played by Aquafina isn't really meant to
be her it's just supposed to be someone
who's going through something very very
very similar that way she has the
emotion of a sort of IO pick but it
isn't restricted and it turns out that a
lot of people have gone through this at
first it was like you know I sort of
expected that there would be other
Chinese people and other Asian people
but there were people that were like
Middle Eastern are from like South
America that we're doing it and that's
what was really surprising was just how
widespread this practice is I know the
Swedes in mid-summer took their elderly
to another extreme but it's fast
hearing this lie be normal to a lot of
people considering that for most of us
Mexicans we keep our grandparents till
they're like a hundred and ten and when
they are sick they never go to a doctor
man I feel bad I should go to the doctor
Shane you better not go they're gonna
find something wrong with you don't look
at as weird as it is if you're American
it's interesting to see that it's not
done out of ill intentions like even the
doctors are in on it well as told by a
Chinese person that Americans think on
an individualist in an introduces way
and in in China there's more of a group
mentality so we take on that emotional
burden for someone who who is sick and
so the obstacle was making a movie that
stayed true to that story
if you've seen the movie you would get
why so many producers freaked out with
it and wanted to label it you know put
it in a box and say they don't know what
genre it was and I love how Lulu's
response to that was just well what
genre is your life she had already made
a feature about an artist whose work
takes off after his death only thing
being he wasn't dead but the closest to
this movie I would say and one of my
favorites of her is her short touch that
really started honing in on these
cultural differences at first they
wanted her to change the ethnicities of
the characters as this quote from
producers wanting her to alter events to
the story of her life that never
happened in her life I was even amused
by the amount of many suggestions like
scenes walking down uh partly was his
garden of Thrones again it's ironic that
in a story based on a lie they wanted a
strip all the emotion around it by lying
so when it came to deciding whether it
was an American production or a Chinese
one man they practically malfunctioned
people kept trying to put me in a box
and saying if it's an American film it's
got to look like this and people can't
be speaking in a different language and
we can't have subtitles but you know I
went to Chinese investors too and they
said if it's a Chinese film it can't be
told through the perspective of Billy
because her point of view is too
Americanized and so it was very
confrontational and like well where is
there room for me that as a filmmaker in
in this country in in this industry
spoiler alert
there is she pulled a Roma which for
those who don't know my feel codone
literally rebuilt his childhood home he
got all our furniture all of that and
here Lulu was able to shoot the movie in
China at her grandmother's town because
she wanted to capture the peach building
she knew growing up the production had
people moving cars she added into
Sundance with rave reviews and was even
able to cast her own aunt to be in the
movie the real-life sister to a grandma
who started the life yeah my parents saw
it at Sundance what did they think well
my dad said it's pretty good too like
the entire audience which is an Asian a
plus so here's why it's a combo price
for me I love the subtlety to it because
the movie doesn't stop to explain
cultural differences to other people who
in the movie are also the Chinese if
Disney either way they probably would
have had it as Aquafina having an
American boyfriend
gets to be our gateway and everyone
overly explains everything to him and at
the end he probably helps her understand
her culture better nah instead there are
points in the movie where they don't
even use subtitles because she knows you
get the emotion she respected the
audience enough to show us a game where
we may not know the rules to it but we
know he's losing and then there are
other parts where I related to it fully
even if I've never been in that exact
situation
listen if your family doesn't wake up
planning dinner before you've even had
breakfast and I'll know you people we're
all used to certain foods and sometimes
we don't even want to explore outside
our circle but even within your home
family I'm sure we've all been in that
scenario where you're looking forward to
like a family dinner you finally get
there for those empanadas and the moment
you go for what everyone criticizes your
weight because you took one too many but
then if you don't eat enough you're
considered too sick how many winters you
want five five that's not enough make it
doesn't okay good parents really be like
that
I love how a lot of the movie or Rawls
around food not just because you know
that's a part of life but because food
is a love language between families as
they put it but what's crazy is that the
entire family isn't really hungry since
their morning but they can't show that
and they can't stop feeding says they
have to keep up with the light on top of
that night I saw like the wedding
planner before everyone came so she's
taking this fake wedding too literally
she's doing tae-bo like my grandma did
back in the day releasing those toxins
everyone's trying so hard not to break
and meanwhile the grin was like do I
have to do everything myself
one of the biggest moments for me comes
in the dinner scene and I don't know how
much of this is considered a spoiler so
I'm just gonna put a warning here go
watch the farewell as soon as you can
but the thing is I was already spoiled
too soon because I've lived in it it's
funny to me how Lulu was given notes
about how the mom was too mean
completely ignoring the perspective of
her scenario with the mother-in-law I
could feel the people in the theater who
thought this was a fight well to me they
were just working things out with their
inside voices y'all don't want to hear
the outside ones and then comes the big
Western versus Eastern clash which for
me would be over the border in this
discussion about how some consider
themselves more Chinese while the other
side of the table proudly called
themselves American and it's something
that if they ever tried to remake this
movie you like America likes to do
they're gonna completely butcher this
aspect especially when it comes to
seeing kids as investments now how about
Friday Night Lights trying to live
vicariously through your son cuz you
couldn't make it I'm talking about
leaving your home country because you
wanted the best for your child even when
nobody else sees it including them it
doesn't
you don't like your home even though
that's what people back home I was gonna
hit you with it means you're now stuck
between two worlds as the catalyst for
my favorite scene in the movie easily
that's when Billy confronts her mom and
tells her how she feels
finally expressing how much to move hurt
her that said why is it that every time
we have a deep discussion it's never in
private y'all noticed we never get to
express ourselves without stuttering
there's never a John Williams score
playing in the background with the rain
now there's always a random cousin or
family member awkwardly listening in
when you're finally pouring your heart
out could you just [ __ ] off knowing that
Aquafina was also raised by her
grandmother though boost the scene a
little bit
the affectionately nicknamed grandma
fina has made cameos and music videos
fully supporting her granddaughter's
edgy brand of humor she's a funny woman
man no joke was ever too dirty for her
but hearing about Lulu's backstory makes
it even more intense cuz she didn't move
to New York City which has a Chinatown
right when you get off the bridge ma she
moved from China to Miami at age six so
knowing that that makes Billy's
confession to her mother about feeling
lonely and lost feel ten times more
powerful than it already is
that's why there's a physicality to it
when Billy finally embraces a lie that
she's been against running to go snatch
the grandmas test results and alter them
at the local Kinkos remember at the
dinner party they talked about kids
being investments well they bring up the
piano which Lulu herself did play before
dropping it to become a filmmaker but
she's credited as a pianist for one of
the final songs in the movie if you
listen to the podcast this quote really
shines through about not knowing whether
the lie was right or wrong because
obviously there's a lot of people are
gonna see this movie and think that a
what they're doing is completely wrong
there's gonna be others who have no
problem putting their elderly with
strangers who are caring for them as
where this bird comes in I think to me
it represents perspective like so many
weird coincidences have
all around us all the time if you look
for them and certainly for me and some
of them like are hard to explain because
you're like there's a bird but I just
saw the you know people would look at
you crazy but you know like that's
strange it's like the same bird but I
think it sort of represents the fact
that if you read into it if you take
meaning from it then it's meaningful if
you see no meaning in it you're just
like it's another bird then there's no
meaning and that's sort of what the
whole movie is about it's it's sort of
perspective and belief and if you
believe something works then maybe it
does to wrap my my appreciation for this
movie I want to read a conversation
between her and her mom
after all the Sundance deals were
flooding in with a 24 is clocking it at
six mil but also having streaming deals
that were bigger Lulu says she used to
compare me to other kids as Asian
parents do and she would say you know
they even promised his mom that when he
grows up he's going to buy her a house I
never got that promise from you right I
know she was joking but it made me feel
bad because I knew I wanted to do
something with my life that I was
passionate about and the struggle with
that was that it felt selfish it felt
like I'm choosing myself over the
ability to take care of my family so
when she found herself at Sundance
having to pick between a studio that
would pay or less but encouraged her
vision or an altered version that meant
more green she asked her mom for advice
I can buy you a house now and you can
tell all your friends she remembers
telling her in the mom way why would you
buy me a freaking house I already have
one this film is your baby and you have
to give it to the place that is not
necessarily the wealthiest but will give
it the most love and joy and bring it
into the world in the right way and I
think they both made the right decision
thank you guys freaking out this video
I'm Kirsten any thoughts about the
farewell if you haven't seen it again
you guys know what I do in this channel
I always try to pitch it to you guys if
I think it's a good movie and even if
you got it spoiled good movies can't get
spoil a obviously want to go into them
fresh but go into this movie not knowing
anything if you can I mean got to this
point you know some bits of it but it's
an emotional experience I think it's
even better on more rewatch is
especially the more nuances that you
pick up on it but I'm curious to know
your thoughts do you're able to check
out this movie some of the other quotes
that I had here I thought were pretty
funny one of my favorite scenes was
the juxtaposition at the cemetery we all
know the dramatic lady who cries at
funerals like you-know-whats
you can't say anything because obviously
they're in mourning it sounds like you
ain't gotta yell that much I also loved
the scene in there where they let the
man smoke because he was already dead
one of my favorite quotes while
researching this was life's not what you
do but how you do it another tidbit she
was fired from pineapple Express is
beautiful because I imagine if she was
still working like I think she was like
a PA or something but imagine if she
continued down that line and never ended
up making this movie which is one of my
favorites of the year it's always
interesting to see where a bunch of
filmmakers start up on but I think one
of the final things I wanted to cover
was actually a scene that she talks
about and I will let her explain it
dealing with the end of the story for me
was never about whether she lives or
dies like that's the Hollywood version
right of like oh and and then she has a
wedding and now she can attend you know
her doing that exercise on the streets
of New York and having her voice
transcend you know an echo into China
was sort of my way of representing the
fact that she carries her grandmother
spirit with her no matter where she goes
and that her voice through art in her
life
it carries and resonates and and it you
know contains the voice of her
grandmother and it's heard globally you
didn't China dad said I think in the
podcast you said the grandma might have
still been alive and I believe she is so
I don't know how they're gonna handle
the movie once they go over there
and if she sees it there goes alive but
I think you know there was a cute part
in the podcast where they kind of talked
about well what if the grandmother knew
the entire time that would be a really
interesting play but let me know if you
liked it or if you didn't or other ones
that you recommend down below in the
comment section and don't forget to
comment like and subscribe and you can
have the 12 wontons okay good